CASMPET-6010: DOCS: Create a Manual Backup of Bare-Metal etcd Cluster… (#2519)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/kubernetes/Create_a_Manual_Backup_of_a_Healthy_Bare-Metal_etcd_Cluster.md

When needed, a Bare-Metal etcd cluster can be restored from a saved backup.

The commands in these procedures can be run on any master (control plane) node \(`ncn-m#`\) on the system.
These procedures assume a healthy Bare-Metal etcd cluster.

## Table of contents

* [Check health of Bare-Metal etcd cluster](#Check-health-of-Bare-Metal-etcd-cluster)
* [Bare-Metal etcd cluster backups overview](#Bare-Metal-etcd-cluster-backups-overview)
* [Create new Bare-Metal etcd cluster backup](#Create-new-Bare-Metal-etcd-cluster-backup)
* [Save a copy of a Bare-Metal etcd cluster backup](#Save-a-copy-of-a-Bare-Metal-etcd-cluster-backup)
* [Restore Bare-Metal etcd cluster from a saved backup file](#Restore-Bare-Metal-etcd-cluster-from-a-saved-backup-file)

## Check health of Bare-Metal etcd cluster

1. Verify Bare-Metal etcd cluster health on each master (control plane) node \(`ncn-m#`\) on the system.
    
    ```bash
    ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
        --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt \
        --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key endpoint health
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```text

>     127.0.0.1:2379 is healthy: successfully committed proposal: took = 20.697187ms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    127.0.0.1:2379 is healthy: successfully committed proposal: took = 20.697187ms
    ```
```

## Bare-Metal etcd cluster backups overview

> 1. Bare-Metal etcd cluster backups are initiated every 10 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that the Bare-Metal etcd cluster backups are initiated every ten minutes.
```

    
    ```bash
    kubectl get cronjob -n kube-system
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```text
    NAME              SCHEDULE       SUSPEND   ACTIVE   LAST SCHEDULE   AGE
    kube-etcdbackup   */10 * * * *   False     0        3m28s           7d10h
    ```

> 1. View backup  job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. View backup job.
```

    
    ```bash
    kubectl get jobs -n kube-system | grep -e NAME -e etcdbackup
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```text
    NAME                       COMPLETIONS   DURATION   AGE
    kube-etcdbackup-27721380   1/1           8s         2m30s
    ```

> 1. List available Bare-Metal etcd cluster backups. Note 10 minute interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. List the available Bare-Metal etcd cluster backups. Note the ten minute interval.
```

    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```text
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-19-50-02.tar.gz
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-00-02.tar.gz
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-10-02.tar.gz
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-20-02.tar.gz
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-30-03.tar.gz
    Current: 2022-09-15-20-32-54
    ```

## Create new Bare-Metal etcd cluster backup

1. Validate Bare-Metal etcd cluster's health [Check health of Bare-Metal etcd cluster](#Check health of Bare-Metal etcd cluster).

1. Create backup job.
    
    ```bash
    kubectl create job tmp-bare-metal-etcd-backup \
        --from=cronjob/kube-etcdbackup -n kube-system
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```text
    job.batch/tmp-bare-metal-etcd-backup created
    ```

1. Validate job creation.
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get jobs -n kube-system | \
        grep -e NAME -e tmp-bare-metal-etcd-backup
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```text
    NAME                       COMPLETIONS   DURATION   AGE
    tmp-bare-metal-etcd-backup   1/1           9s         16s
    ```

1. Verify new Bare-Metal etcd cluster backup created.

>     In this example `bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-34-13.tar.gz` created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this example, `bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-34-13.tar.gz` is created.
```

    
    ```bash
    cd /opt/cray/platform-utils/s3 && ./list-objects.py \
        --bucket-name etcd-backup | \
        grep bare-metal | tail -5; echo "Current": $(date +"%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S")
    ```
     
    Example output:
    
    ```text
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-00-02.tar.gz
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-10-02.tar.gz
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-20-02.tar.gz
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-30-03.tar.gz
    bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-34-13.tar.gz
    Current: 2022-09-15-20-36-14
    ```

> 1. Delete tmp-bare-metal-etcd-backup backup job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete the `tmp-bare-metal-etcd-backup` backup job.
```

    
    ```bash
    kubectl -n kube-system delete job tmp-bare-metal-etcd-backup
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```text
    job.batch "tmp-bare-metal-etcd-backup" deleted
    ```

## Save a copy of a Bare-Metal etcd cluster backup

1. Create a temporary directory.
    
    ```bash
    mkdir /tmp/etcd_backup
    ```

1. Retrieve the backup from S3.

>     In this example saving the `bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-34-13.tar.gz` backup created earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this example, the `bare-metal/etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-34-13.tar.gz` backup created earlier is saved.
```

    Set the `BACKUP_NAME` variable to the file name, omitting the `bare-metal/` prefix and the `.tar.gz suffix`.
    
    ```bash
    BACKUP_NAME=etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-34-13
    cd /opt/cray/platform-utils/s3
    ./download-file.py --bucket-name etcd-backup \
        --key-name "bare-metal/${BACKUP_NAME}.tar.gz" \
        --file-name "/tmp/etcd_backup/${BACKUP_NAME}.tar.gz"
    ls /tmp/etcd_backup/
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```text
    etcd-backup-2022-09-15-20-34-13.tar.gz
    ```

## Restore Bare-Metal etcd cluster from a saved backup file

1. Create a `/tmp/etcd_restore` directory.
    
    ```bash
    mkdir /tmp/etcd_restore
    ```

1. Copy the saved Bare-Metal etcd cluster backup file into the directory.
    Set the `BACKUP_NAME` variable to the file name, omitting the `bare-metal/` prefix and the `.tar.gz suffix`.

>     Shown in this example copying the backup file from `/tmp/etcd_backup`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the following example, the backup file is copied from `/tmp/etcd_backup`
```
